---
layout: post
title: Morality, Famine and Affluence
categories: sts
---

<span class="red">None of this is my opinion. All of it comes from the video and reading.</span>

# [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0N6xZUZ4LQU&ab_channel=ColemanHughes)

## Singer Points

- Singer wrote _Animal Liberation_ about Veganism ethics, animals suffer and feel
- Singer wants to donate to the poor to help global famine and other global issues
  - Counter argument - why not help people in local area?
  - Answer - more helpful, percentage wise, to help people globally
- Singer argues **absolute poverty** more significant than relative - the people who can't afford food but are equal in their societies are in more trouble than those who feel poor in the US, but have the inequality
- **Hedonic Adaptation** - as you get more food, sex, (insert pleasurable activity), you require more to be satisfied in the future. Expectations met, expectations rise, cycle again.

## Coleman

- Odd that police is a big deal but the homicides aren't as publicized
- Society is too quick to make judgements based on underlying biases

# [Reading](https://collab.its.virginia.edu/access/content/group/9d57f250-9ed1-4e13-a037-da91f5161217/Singer%20_1972_%20Famine%2C%20Affluence%2C%20Morality%20copy.pdf)

- Developing countries like East Bengal need proportionally small amounts from rich countries. Britain does ok, Australia not as well but also ok, and then the rest of us suck.
- **Moral argument** - if we can help people suffering, help them. Shallow pond drowning child, I walk by, I should help that kid.
  - Distance doesn't change anything - just because the Bengali kid is far from us, we can still help, so we still should
- People give money to 'useless' causes like looking good in clothes but not to stay warm, instead donate to charity
- He says it's **wrong not to give**, not just good to give. That is, if you _don't donate_, you're being morally bad.

<blockquote>The bread which you withold belong to the hungry</blockquote> - Thomas Aquinus

- Counterargument - only postpones starvation
- Answer - I didn't understand his response but basically he said that if you're worried about population control, give to a population control organization **and** a famine one
- He finishes by saying discussion isn't enough, act.
